handoff-summary.md, before:

# Partner Lead Management Portal V2.0 Handoff Summary

## Project Overview

This document serves as a guide for incremental development of the Partner Lead Management Portal V2.0. It provides a high-level overview of the project goals, guiding principles, and a checklist of features to implement.

### Purpose

The Partner Lead Management Portal V2.0 aims to replace the previous Power Pages implementation with a more scalable, maintainable, and customizable solution using modern web technologies. This rebuild addresses limitations in the previous version and aligns with multi-state expansion plans.

### Guiding Principles

- **Security**: Implement robust authentication, authorization, and data protection
- **Stability**: Build reliable, predictable, and fault-tolerant systems
- **Scalability**: Design for growth and multi-state expansion
- **Maintainability**: Create clean, documented, and modular code
- **Knowledge Sharing**: Build code that's accessible across all experience levels
- **Clarity**: Develop intuitive interfaces and clear code patterns
- **Simplicity**: Favor straightforward solutions over complex ones
- **Modern Best Practices**: Utilize current industry standards and patterns

## Architecture Overview

- **Framework**: Next.js App Router with React Server Components and Client Components
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS with shadcn/ui components
- **State Management**: Zustand for global state, React Hook Form for forms
- **Authentication**: Auth.js (NextAuth v5) with Azure AD, leveraging Dynamics 365 for user profile and roles.
- **Backend Integration**: Backend-for-Frontend pattern via Next.js API Routes
- **Data Handling**: TanStack Query (React Query v5) for data fetching and caching
- **Hosting**: Azure Static Web Apps with CI/CD via Azure DevOps

## Feature Checklist

This checklist represents features organized by POC module, with each module focused on a specific technical concern. We will tackle these POC implementations in the order listed, with each building on the lessons learned from previous POCs.

### ✅ Foundation (Completed)
- [x] Project bootstrapped with Next.js App Router
- [x] Basic authentication setup with Auth.js and Microsoft Entra ID
- [x] Initial API route for Dataverse integration
- [x] Basic UI components with shadcn/ui and Tailwind

### ✅ Core Infrastructure POC (Completed)
- [x] Complete Dataverse client implementation (`lib/clients/d365Client.ts`)
- [x] Set up proper environment variable configuration (including D365 connection details)
- [x] Implement token management and caching strategy (within `d365Client.ts`)
- [x] Create centralized error handling utilities (`lib/utils/error-handler.ts`, `DataverseError` in `d365Client.ts`)
- [x] Add comprehensive API error responses (demonstrated in `d365Client.ts`)
- [x] Build working demo at `/poc/core` demonstrating data integration

**POC Goal**: Create a robust foundation for secure API communication that demonstrates clean separation of concerns and proper error handling.

### 🔄 Authentication & Authorization POC (Refinement In Progress)
- [x] Complete user authentication flow with session management via Azure AD
- [x] Implement protected routes with middleware
- [x] Add role-based access control (RBAC) demonstration (initial setup)
- [x] Set up proper auth state persistence
- [x] Add CSRF protection
- [x] **Strategy Defined:** Azure AD for auth, Dynamics 365 for user profile & roles.
- [x] **`D365ContactService` Created:** (`lib/services/d365ContactService.ts`) for D365 interactions.
- [x] **`Auth.js` Callbacks Updated:** `jwt` and `session` in `lib/auth.ts` integrate D365 data.
- [x] **TypeScript Types Augmented:** `Session` and `JWT` in `lib/auth.ts` include D365 fields.
- [x] **Environment Variables Configured:** `.env.example` updated for D365 field names (`DATAVERSE_CONTACT_AAD_OBJECT_ID_FIELD`, `DATAVERSE_CONTACT_APP_ROLES_FIELD`).
- [x] **D365 Field Name Usage:** `D365ContactService` uses environment variables for field names.
- [x] **UI Updated:** `poc-navigation.tsx` displays D365 user status and session errors.
- [x] **Adapt `mapD365RolesToAppRoles` (Completed):** Logic in `D365ContactService` confirmed to handle comma-separated string format for roles; other examples retained as comments.
- [ ] **Thorough Testing (End-to-End) (Current Focus):**
    - [ ] User exists in Azure AD and D365 (with roles correctly mapped).
    - [ ] User exists in Azure AD but not in D365 (or not linked).
    - [ ] Various D365 role configurations and error scenarios (e.g., API errors, malformed role data).
- [ ] Update UI components further to display D365-sourced profile information (e.g., on a dedicated profile page).
- [ ] Adapt UI/UX based on `isD365User` status more broadly.
- [ ] Refine error handling in auth flow for D365 integration issues (e.g., user-facing messages for `D365LookupFailed`).
- [ ] Implement `updateContactProfile` in `D365ContactService` with actual D365 client call and test profile updates from the portal.

**POC Goal**: Demonstrate secure authentication patterns using Azure AD, with user profile details and application-specific roles managed in Dynamics 365, and role-based access control integrated throughout the application.

### ✅ UI Framework & Design System POC (Completed)
- [x] Implement brand theming with Tailwind configuration (colors, spacing, typography)
- [x] Create a comprehensive shadcn/ui component library inventory with customized variants
- [x] Build a custom component showcase page demonstrating shadcn/ui theming and extensions
- [x] Create responsive layout components (navigation, sidebar, etc.) using shadcn/ui primitives
- [x] Build reusable form components with React Hook Form, Zod validation, and shadcn/ui form elements
- [x] Add data display components (tables, cards, etc.) with shadcn/ui styling conventions
- [x] Demonstrate theme switching capability using Tailwind and shadcn/ui theming system
- [x] Document Tailwind/shadcn component usage patterns and best practices
- [x] Create comprehensive demo at `/poc/ui` showcasing all components with interactive examples

**POC Goal**: Build a comprehensive UI toolkit that demonstrates consistent design patterns and responsive components, specifically highlighting the integration and customization of shadcn/ui with Tailwind CSS.

### ✅ Backend-for-Frontend (BFF) Pattern POC (Completed)
- [x] Implement secure API endpoints following the BFF pattern (See `/api/bff-poc/items`)
- [x] Create examples of different API request types (GET, POST, PATCH) (Implemented in `/api/bff-poc/items/route.ts`)
- [x] Demonstrate proper error handling and validation (Basic error handling and type checks in API routes)
- [x] Implement authentication and authorization checks (Auth.js session checks in API routes)
- [x] Build working demo at `/poc/bff` showing API interactions (Client-side UI at `/poc/bff` interacts with API)

**POC Goal**: Demonstrate the Backend-for-Frontend architectural pattern using Next.js API routes to create a secure communication layer between the frontend and backend services.

### 📊 State Management & Data Handling POC
- [ ] Configure Zustand store for global state management
- [ ] Set up TanStack Query client with caching strategies
- [ ] Implement React Query dev tools for debugging
- [ ] Create data validation layer with Zod
- [ ] Demonstrate optimistic updates pattern
- [ ] Build working demo at `/poc/state` showing data flow

**POC Goal**: Establish patterns for state management, data fetching, and validation that can be applied consistently across the application.

### 📋 Lead Management Mini-App POC
- [ ] Implement lead listing page with pagination and filtering
- [ ] Create lead detail view with related data
- [ ] Build lead creation/edit form with validation
- [ ] Add lead status management workflow
- [ ] Implement basic reporting capabilities
- [ ] Create demo at `/poc/leads` demonstrating end-to-end lead management journey

**POC Goal**: Build a small but complete application that integrates all previous POCs to demonstrate a real business workflow.

### 🧪 Testing & Quality Assurance Standards
- [ ] Set up Jest for unit testing
- [ ] Configure React Testing Library for component tests
- [ ] Add Cypress for end-to-end testing (optional)
- [ ] Implement type checking and linting standards
- [ ] Create example tests for each POC module

**Testing Goal**: Establish consistent testing patterns that can be applied across all POC modules.

### 🚀 Deployment & Documentation
- [ ] Set up deployment pipeline example
- [ ] Create documentation for environment configuration
- [ ] Document integration points between POCs 
- [ ] Establish code standards and contribution guidelines

**Documentation Goal**: Ensure each POC is well-documented with clear integration guidance.

## Development Approach

### Modular POC Approach with Integration Path

After careful consideration, we've decided to pursue focused Proof-of-Concept (POC) modules rather than a single comprehensive prototype. This approach offers several advantages:

- **Focused demonstration** of specific technical challenges
- **Faster validation** of key technologies and patterns
- **Easier team review** of isolated concerns
- **Reduced complexity** in each development cycle
- **Clearer technical boundaries** between components

Each POC will be developed as a standalone module with clear integration points and documentation:

1. **Core Infrastructure POC**: Dataverse client, token management, error handling
2. **Authentication POC**: Complete auth flows, RBAC implementation (D365 integration)
3. **UI Framework POC**: Component system, theming, layouts
4. **Backend-for-Frontend (BFF) POC**: API endpoints, request/response handling
5. **State Management POC**: Global state, data fetching, caching
6. **Lead Management Mini-App**: Integration of all previous POCs

Each POC will include:
- Independent deployment capabilities
- Integration documentation
- Consistent patterns and libraries
- Minimal but sufficient test coverage

This approach enables targeted demonstrations while maintaining a clear path to integration when ready to build the comprehensive solution.

### Shared Libraries & Folder Structure

To ensure consistency across POCs and facilitate future integration, we'll follow these conventions:

#### URL/Route Structure
- POC demonstration pages: `/poc/{poc-name}` (e.g., `/poc/auth`, `/poc/ui`, `/poc/state`, `/poc/core`, `/poc/bff`)
- API routes: `/api/{domain}` with HTTP methods (e.g., `GET /api/leads` to list leads, `POST /api/leads` to create)

#### Folder Structure
- `lib/`: Shared utilities and clients
  - `lib/clients/`: API clients (e.g., d365Client.ts)
  - `lib/services/`: Service classes abstracting business logic (e.g., `d365ContactService.ts`)
  - `lib/utils/`: Helper functions
  - `lib/hooks/`: Custom React hooks
  - `lib/types/`: TypeScript interfaces and types
  - `lib/config/`: Configuration (e.g., environment variables)
- `components/`: UI components
  - `components/ui/`: Primitive UI components (from shadcn/ui)
  - `components/custom/`: Domain-specific components (e.g., `poc-navigation.tsx`, `ui-poc-sub-navigation.tsx`)
  - `components/layouts/`: Page layouts and containers
- `app/`: Next.js App Router pages and routes
  - `app/api/`: API routes using BFF pattern (e.g., `app/api/bff-poc/items/route.ts`)
  - `app/poc/`: POC demonstration pages (e.g., `app/poc/bff/page.tsx`)
- `styles/`: Global styles and theming

#### Naming Conventions
- Files: kebab-case for general files (e.g., `error-handler.ts`, `d365-contact-service.ts`)
- Components: PascalCase for component files and functions (e.g., `LeadCard.tsx`)
- Interfaces: Prefixed with "I" (e.g., `ILead`) - *Note: Current BFF POC `Item` interface does not follow this; `AppContactProfile` in `d365ContactService.ts` also does not. Consider for future consistency.*
- Types: PascalCase without prefix (e.g., `LeadStatus`, `UserRole`)
- Environment variables: Uppercase with underscores, prefixed by domain (e.g., `AUTH_CLIENT_ID`, `DATAVERSE_URL`)

#### Environment Variables
Each POC should document its required environment variables in a `.env.example` file, following this pattern:
```
# Core Infrastructure
DATAVERSE_URL=https://yourtenant.crm.dynamics.com
DATAVERSE_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
DATAVERSE_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
DATAVERSE_TENANT_ID=your-tenant-id
# Field in D365 Contact entity storing Azure AD Object ID (e.g., crXXX_azureadobjectid)
DATAVERSE_CONTACT_AAD_OBJECT_ID_FIELD=yourprefix_azureadobjectidfield
# Field in D365 Contact entity storing application roles (e.g., crXXX_approles, comma-separated string)
DATAVERSE_CONTACT_APP_ROLES_FIELD=yourprefix_applicationrolesfield

# Authentication
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID=your-client-id
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET=your-client-secret
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ISSUER=https://login.microsoftonline.com/your-tenant-id/v2.0
AUTH_SECRET=generate-a-secure-random-string-at-least-32-chars

# App Configuration
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:3000/api
```

The development of each POC will follow this progression:
1. Backend API implementation
2. Data fetching and state management
3. UI components and interactions
4. Minimal testing and validation

This methodical approach ensures that at each stage, we have working functionality that can be demonstrated and validated.

## Session Planning Guide

This section provides guidance for structuring productive AI conversations to develop each feature area:

### Conversation Structure
1. **Start with Context**: Begin each session by referencing the handoff summary and previous work
2. **Identify Goals**: Clearly specify which feature subset you're targeting in the current session
3. **Establish Requirements**: List specific requirements for the feature being developed
4. **Implementation Strategy**: Discuss approach before diving into code
5. **Code Implementation**: Develop the feature while explaining key decisions
6. **Review & Refine**: Evaluate the implementation against guiding principles
7. **Document**: Update BOTH the Decisions Log (./decisions-log.md) and Technical Debt document (./technical-debt.md) when completing a POC (this is critical for maintaining clear documentation)

### Tips for Effective AI Sessions
- Focus on one conceptual area per conversation
- Provide clear acceptance criteria for features
- Request explanations for complex implementation choices
- Ask for suggestions on alternative approaches
- Reference specific sections of the handoff summary to maintain alignment

## Project References

### Key References

- [Decisions Log](./decisions-log.md) - Documentation of architectural and implementation decisions
- [Technical Debt Tracking](./technical-debt.md) - Known technical debt items and remediation plans

These files are separated from the main handoff summary to optimize context window usage during AI pairing sessions. Reference them as needed for detailed architectural discussions or when addressing technical debt.

## Current Focus Area

Theme refinements

<!-- **Finalizing and Testing Dynamics 365 Integration for Authentication & Authorization POC.**

The current effort involves completing the integration of Dynamics 365 (D365) as the source of truth for user profile information and application-specific roles. Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) remains the primary authentication provider.

**Implementation Plan & Progress:**

1.  **Strategy Definition (Completed):** Established a hybrid approach: Azure AD for authentication, D365 for user profiles (Contact records) and application roles. `Auth.js` orchestrates this.
2.  **`D365ContactService` Creation & Configuration (Completed):** Service (`lib/services/d365ContactService.ts`) created and configured to use environment variables for D365 field names.
3.  **`Auth.js` Callback Modifications (Completed):** `jwt` and `session` callbacks in `lib/auth.ts` updated to fetch and integrate D365 contact data.
4.  **Type Augmentation (Completed):** TypeScript declarations for `Session` and `JWT` extended.
5.  **D365 Setup & Environment Configuration (User Confirmed Completed):** Necessary fields in D365 (for AAD Object ID and App Roles) are set up, and local `.env` files are populated with their logical names.
6.  **UI Updated (Completed):** `poc-navigation.tsx` now displays D365 user status and session errors.
7.  **Adapt `mapD365RolesToAppRoles` (Completed):**
    *   The developer has confirmed that the D365 `APP_ROLES_FIELD` uses a comma-separated string format.
    *   The existing `mapD365RolesToAppRoles` method in `lib/services/d365ContactService.ts` correctly handles this format. Other parsing examples remain commented out for future reference.
8.  **Verify `d365Client` Functionality (Initial Verification Completed):**
    *   `lib/clients/d365Client.ts` now initializes correctly in both server and client environments (client-side instance is non-functional by design, preventing crashes related to server-only environment variables).
    *   Further verification of Dataverse API request success will occur during end-to-end testing.

**Next Steps for Auth POC Refinement:**

1.  **Thorough End-to-End Testing (CRITICAL - Current Focus):**
    *   Restart the Next.js application.
    *   Test Case 1: User in AAD & D365 with correctly mapped roles. Verify `session.user` details (including roles and `isD365User: true`).
    *   Test Case 2: User in AAD, not in D365 (or not linked via AAD Object ID). Verify default roles (e.g., `UserRole.USER`) and `session.user.isD365User: false`.
    *   Test Case 3: Different D365 role configurations and error/edge cases (e.g., empty roles field, roles not defined in `UserRole` enum, leading/trailing spaces around roles/commas).
    *   Monitor server-side console logs for debugging messages from `D365ContactService` and `lib/auth.ts`, especially regarding D365 contact lookup and role mapping.
2.  **Implement `updateContactProfile` (Post-Testing):**
    *   Complete the `updateContactProfile` method in `D365ContactService` by ensuring `d365Client.updateContact` is called correctly with the appropriate D365 contact ID and payload.
    *   Create a basic UI (e.g., a simple form on a profile page) and a corresponding API route to allow users to update parts of their D365 profile (e.g., first name, last name) from the portal.
3.  **UI/UX Enhancements (Post-Testing):**
    *   Further update UI components to display more D365-sourced profile information (e.g., on a dedicated profile page or dashboard).
    *   Refine how the application behaves for users with `isD365User: false` (e.g., display a message prompting them to contact support if they expect D365 access).
4.  **Refine Error Handling (Post-Testing):**
    *   Implement more user-friendly display of session errors related to D365 integration (e.g., using toast notifications for `D365LookupFailed` or similar errors surfaced in `session.error`).

*Last updated: 2025-05-11*  -->

---

*This document will be updated throughout the development process to reflect completed items and any changes to the approach.*

Commit message:

feat: implement state-specific theming based on D365 assignments
- Add prefix notation parsing for D365 roles field (role:admin,state:arkansas)
- Create state-to-theme mapping system (Tennessee=green, Arkansas=orange)
- Implement StateThemeChecker component for automatic theme suggestions
- Add theme API endpoint for client-side theme updates
- Extend auth system to propagate state assignments through JWT/Session
- Update navigation to display user state assignments
- Add cookie-based theme persistence to prevent flash
- Document implementation in handoff summary, decisions log, and technical debt
- Fix SSR issues with proper client-side checks for sessionStorage

handoff-summary.md, after:

# Partner Lead Management Portal V2.0 Handoff Summary

## Project Overview

This document serves as a guide for incremental development of the Partner Lead Management Portal V2.0. It provides a high-level overview of the project goals, guiding principles, and a checklist of features to implement.

### Purpose

The Partner Lead Management Portal V2.0 aims to replace the previous Power Pages implementation with a more scalable, maintainable, and customizable solution using modern web technologies. This rebuild addresses limitations in the previous version and aligns with multi-state expansion plans.

### Guiding Principles

- **Security**: Implement robust authentication, authorization, and data protection
- **Stability**: Build reliable, predictable, and fault-tolerant systems
- **Scalability**: Design for growth and multi-state expansion
- **Maintainability**: Create clean, documented, and modular code
- **Knowledge Sharing**: Build code that's accessible across all experience levels
- **Clarity**: Develop intuitive interfaces and clear code patterns
- **Simplicity**: Favor straightforward solutions over complex ones
- **Modern Best Practices**: Utilize current industry standards and patterns

## Architecture Overview

- **Framework**: Next.js App Router with React Server Components and Client Components
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS with shadcn/ui components
- **State Management**: Zustand for global state, React Hook Form for forms
- **Authentication**: Auth.js (NextAuth v5) with Azure AD, leveraging Dynamics 365 for user profile and roles.
- **Backend Integration**: Backend-for-Frontend pattern via Next.js API Routes
- **Data Handling**: TanStack Query (React Query v5) for data fetching and caching
- **Hosting**: Azure Static Web Apps with CI/CD via Azure DevOps

## Feature Checklist

This checklist represents features organized by POC module, with each module focused on a specific technical concern. We will tackle these POC implementations in the order listed, with each building on the lessons learned from previous POCs.

### ✅ Foundation (Completed)
- [x] Project bootstrapped with Next.js App Router
- [x] Basic authentication setup with Auth.js and Microsoft Entra ID
- [x] Initial API route for Dataverse integration
- [x] Basic UI components with shadcn/ui and Tailwind

### ✅ Core Infrastructure POC (Completed)
- [x] Complete Dataverse client implementation (`lib/clients/d365Client.ts`)
- [x] Set up proper environment variable configuration (including D365 connection details)
- [x] Implement token management and caching strategy (within `d365Client.ts`)
- [x] Create centralized error handling utilities (`lib/utils/error-handler.ts`, `DataverseError` in `d365Client.ts`)
- [x] Add comprehensive API error responses (demonstrated in `d365Client.ts`)
- [x] Build working demo at `/poc/core` demonstrating data integration

**POC Goal**: Create a robust foundation for secure API communication that demonstrates clean separation of concerns and proper error handling.

### 🔄 Authentication & Authorization POC (Refinement In Progress)
- [x] Complete user authentication flow with session management via Azure AD
- [x] Implement protected routes with middleware
- [x] Add role-based access control (RBAC) demonstration (initial setup)
- [x] Set up proper auth state persistence
- [x] Add CSRF protection
- [x] **Strategy Defined:** Azure AD for auth, Dynamics 365 for user profile & roles.
- [x] **`D365ContactService` Created:** (`lib/services/d365ContactService.ts`) for D365 interactions.
- [x] **`Auth.js` Callbacks Updated:** `jwt` and `session` in `lib/auth.ts` integrate D365 data.
- [x] **TypeScript Types Augmented:** `Session` and `JWT` in `lib/auth.ts` include D365 fields.
- [x] **Environment Variables Configured:** `.env.example` updated for D365 field names (`DATAVERSE_CONTACT_AAD_OBJECT_ID_FIELD`, `DATAVERSE_CONTACT_APP_ROLES_FIELD`).
- [x] **D365 Field Name Usage:** `D365ContactService` uses environment variables for field names.
- [x] **UI Updated:** `poc-navigation.tsx` displays D365 user status and session errors.
- [x] **Adapt `mapD365RolesToAppRoles` (Completed):** Logic in `D365ContactService` confirmed to handle comma-separated string format for roles; other examples retained as comments.
- [x] **State Assignment Support:** Extended D365ContactService to parse state assignments using prefix notation (e.g., "state:arkansas")
- [x] **State Theme Integration:** Implemented automatic theme suggestions based on user's D365 state assignments
- [ ] **Thorough Testing (End-to-End) (Current Focus):**
    - [ ] User exists in Azure AD and D365 (with roles correctly mapped).
    - [ ] User exists in Azure AD but not in D365 (or not linked).
    - [ ] Various D365 role configurations and error scenarios (e.g., API errors, malformed role data).
- [ ] Update UI components further to display D365-sourced profile information (e.g., on a dedicated profile page).
- [ ] Adapt UI/UX based on `isD365User` status more broadly.
- [ ] Refine error handling in auth flow for D365 integration issues (e.g., user-facing messages for `D365LookupFailed`).
- [ ] Implement `updateContactProfile` in `D365ContactService` with actual D365 client call and test profile updates from the portal.

**POC Goal**: Demonstrate secure authentication patterns using Azure AD, with user profile details and application-specific roles managed in Dynamics 365, and role-based access control integrated throughout the application.

### ✅ UI Framework & Design System POC (Completed)
- [x] Implement brand theming with Tailwind configuration (colors, spacing, typography)
- [x] Create a comprehensive shadcn/ui component library inventory with customized variants
- [x] Build a custom component showcase page demonstrating shadcn/ui theming and extensions
- [x] Create responsive layout components (navigation, sidebar, etc.) using shadcn/ui primitives
- [x] Build reusable form components with React Hook Form, Zod validation, and shadcn/ui form elements
- [x] Add data display components (tables, cards, etc.) with shadcn/ui styling conventions
- [x] Demonstrate theme switching capability using Tailwind and shadcn/ui theming system
- [x] Implement state-specific theming system with automatic suggestions based on D365 state assignments
- [x] Document Tailwind/shadcn component usage patterns and best practices
- [x] Create comprehensive demo at `/poc/ui` showcasing all components with interactive examples

**POC Goal**: Build a comprehensive UI toolkit that demonstrates consistent design patterns and responsive components, specifically highlighting the integration and customization of shadcn/ui with Tailwind CSS.

### ✅ Backend-for-Frontend (BFF) Pattern POC (Completed)
- [x] Implement secure API endpoints following the BFF pattern (See `/api/bff-poc/items`)
- [x] Create examples of different API request types (GET, POST, PATCH) (Implemented in `/api/bff-poc/items/route.ts`)
- [x] Demonstrate proper error handling and validation (Basic error handling and type checks in API routes)
- [x] Implement authentication and authorization checks (Auth.js session checks in API routes)
- [x] Build working demo at `/poc/bff` showing API interactions (Client-side UI at `/poc/bff` interacts with API)

**POC Goal**: Demonstrate the Backend-for-Frontend architectural pattern using Next.js API routes to create a secure communication layer between the frontend and backend services.

### 📊 State Management & Data Handling POC
- [ ] Configure Zustand store for global state management
- [ ] Set up TanStack Query client with caching strategies
- [ ] Implement React Query dev tools for debugging
- [ ] Create data validation layer with Zod
- [ ] Demonstrate optimistic updates pattern
- [ ] Build working demo at `/poc/state` showing data flow

**POC Goal**: Establish patterns for state management, data fetching, and validation that can be applied consistently across the application.

### 📋 Lead Management Mini-App POC
- [ ] Implement lead listing page with pagination and filtering
- [ ] Create lead detail view with related data
- [ ] Build lead creation/edit form with validation
- [ ] Add lead status management workflow
- [ ] Implement basic reporting capabilities
- [ ] Create demo at `/poc/leads` demonstrating end-to-end lead management journey

**POC Goal**: Build a small but complete application that integrates all previous POCs to demonstrate a real business workflow.

### 🧪 Testing & Quality Assurance Standards
- [ ] Set up Jest for unit testing
- [ ] Configure React Testing Library for component tests
- [ ] Add Cypress for end-to-end testing (optional)
- [ ] Implement type checking and linting standards
- [ ] Create example tests for each POC module

**Testing Goal**: Establish consistent testing patterns that can be applied across all POC modules.

### 🚀 Deployment & Documentation
- [ ] Set up deployment pipeline example
- [ ] Create documentation for environment configuration
- [ ] Document integration points between POCs 
- [ ] Establish code standards and contribution guidelines

**Documentation Goal**: Ensure each POC is well-documented with clear integration guidance.

## Development Approach

### Modular POC Approach with Integration Path

After careful consideration, we've decided to pursue focused Proof-of-Concept (POC) modules rather than a single comprehensive prototype. This approach offers several advantages:

- **Focused demonstration** of specific technical challenges
- **Faster validation** of key technologies and patterns
- **Easier team review** of isolated concerns
- **Reduced complexity** in each development cycle
- **Clearer technical boundaries** between components

Each POC will be developed as a standalone module with clear integration points and documentation:

1. **Core Infrastructure POC**: Dataverse client, token management, error handling
2. **Authentication POC**: Complete auth flows, RBAC implementation (D365 integration)
3. **UI Framework POC**: Component system, theming, layouts
4. **Backend-for-Frontend (BFF) POC**: API endpoints, request/response handling
5. **State Management POC**: Global state, data fetching, caching
6. **Lead Management Mini-App**: Integration of all previous POCs

Each POC will include:
- Independent deployment capabilities
- Integration documentation
- Consistent patterns and libraries
- Minimal but sufficient test coverage

This approach enables targeted demonstrations while maintaining a clear path to integration when ready to build the comprehensive solution.

### Shared Libraries & Folder Structure

To ensure consistency across POCs and facilitate future integration, we'll follow these conventions:

#### URL/Route Structure
- POC demonstration pages: `/poc/{poc-name}` (e.g., `/poc/auth`, `/poc/ui`, `/poc/state`, `/poc/core`, `/poc/bff`)
- API routes: `/api/{domain}` with HTTP methods (e.g., `GET /api/leads` to list leads, `POST /api/leads` to create)

#### Folder Structure
- `lib/`: Shared utilities and clients
  - `lib/clients/`: API clients (e.g., d365Client.ts)
  - `lib/services/`: Service classes abstracting business logic (e.g., `d365ContactService.ts`)
  - `lib/utils/`: Helper functions
  - `lib/hooks/`: Custom React hooks
  - `lib/types/`: TypeScript interfaces and types
  - `lib/config/`: Configuration (e.g., environment variables)
- `components/`: UI components
  - `components/ui/`: Primitive UI components (from shadcn/ui)
  - `components/custom/`: Domain-specific components (e.g., `poc-navigation.tsx`, `ui-poc-sub-navigation.tsx`)
  - `components/layouts/`: Page layouts and containers
- `app/`: Next.js App Router pages and routes
  - `app/api/`: API routes using BFF pattern (e.g., `app/api/bff-poc/items/route.ts`)
  - `app/poc/`: POC demonstration pages (e.g., `app/poc/bff/page.tsx`)
- `styles/`: Global styles and theming

#### Naming Conventions
- Files: kebab-case for general files (e.g., `error-handler.ts`, `d365-contact-service.ts`)
- Components: PascalCase for component files and functions (e.g., `LeadCard.tsx`)
- Interfaces: Prefixed with "I" (e.g., `ILead`) - *Note: Current BFF POC `Item` interface does not follow this; `AppContactProfile` in `d365ContactService.ts` also does not. Consider for future consistency.*
- Types: PascalCase without prefix (e.g., `LeadStatus`, `UserRole`)
- Environment variables: Uppercase with underscores, prefixed by domain (e.g., `AUTH_CLIENT_ID`, `DATAVERSE_URL`)

#### Environment Variables
Each POC should document its required environment variables in a `.env.example` file, following this pattern:
```
# Core Infrastructure
DATAVERSE_URL=https://yourtenant.crm.dynamics.com
DATAVERSE_CLIENT_ID=your-client-id
DATAVERSE_CLIENT_SECRET=your-client-secret
DATAVERSE_TENANT_ID=your-tenant-id
# Field in D365 Contact entity storing Azure AD Object ID (e.g., crXXX_azureadobjectid)
DATAVERSE_CONTACT_AAD_OBJECT_ID_FIELD=yourprefix_azureadobjectidfield
# Field in D365 Contact entity storing application roles (e.g., crXXX_approles, comma-separated string)
DATAVERSE_CONTACT_APP_ROLES_FIELD=yourprefix_applicationrolesfield

# Authentication
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ID=your-client-id
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_SECRET=your-client-secret
AUTH_MICROSOFT_ENTRA_ID_ISSUER=https://login.microsoftonline.com/your-tenant-id/v2.0
AUTH_SECRET=generate-a-secure-random-string-at-least-32-chars

# App Configuration
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=http://localhost:3000
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=http://localhost:3000/api
```

The development of each POC will follow this progression:
1. Backend API implementation
2. Data fetching and state management
3. UI components and interactions
4. Minimal testing and validation

This methodical approach ensures that at each stage, we have working functionality that can be demonstrated and validated.

## Session Planning Guide

This section provides guidance for structuring productive AI conversations to develop each feature area:

### Conversation Structure
1. **Start with Context**: Begin each session by referencing the handoff summary and previous work
2. **Identify Goals**: Clearly specify which feature subset you're targeting in the current session
3. **Establish Requirements**: List specific requirements for the feature being developed
4. **Implementation Strategy**: Discuss approach before diving into code
5. **Code Implementation**: Develop the feature while explaining key decisions
6. **Review & Refine**: Evaluate the implementation against guiding principles
7. **Document**: Update BOTH the Decisions Log (./decisions-log.md) and Technical Debt document (./technical-debt.md) when completing a POC (this is critical for maintaining clear documentation)

### Tips for Effective AI Sessions
- Focus on one conceptual area per conversation
- Provide clear acceptance criteria for features
- Request explanations for complex implementation choices
- Ask for suggestions on alternative approaches
- Reference specific sections of the handoff summary to maintain alignment

## Project References

### Key References

- [Decisions Log](./decisions-log.md) - Documentation of architectural and implementation decisions
- [Technical Debt Tracking](./technical-debt.md) - Known technical debt items and remediation plans

These files are separated from the main handoff summary to optimize context window usage during AI pairing sessions. Reference them as needed for detailed architectural discussions or when addressing technical debt.

## Current Focus Area

**Testing Dynamics 365 Integration for Authentication & Authorization POC**

With state-specific theming now complete, the focus returns to finalizing the Authentication & Authorization POC by conducting thorough end-to-end testing of the D365 integration. This includes verifying the state assignment parsing and theme suggestions work correctly with real D365 data.

<!-- **Previous Implementation Details:**

The current effort involves completing the integration of Dynamics 365 (D365) as the source of truth for user profile information and application-specific roles. Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) remains the primary authentication provider.

**Implementation Plan & Progress:**

1.  **Strategy Definition (Completed):** Established a hybrid approach: Azure AD for authentication, D365 for user profiles (Contact records) and application roles. `Auth.js` orchestrates this.
2.  **`D365ContactService` Creation & Configuration (Completed):** Service (`lib/services/d365ContactService.ts`) created and configured to use environment variables for D365 field names.
3.  **`Auth.js` Callback Modifications (Completed):** `jwt` and `session` callbacks in `lib/auth.ts` updated to fetch and integrate D365 contact data.
4.  **Type Augmentation (Completed):** TypeScript declarations for `Session` and `JWT` extended.
5.  **D365 Setup & Environment Configuration (User Confirmed Completed):** Necessary fields in D365 (for AAD Object ID and App Roles) are set up, and local `.env` files are populated with their logical names.
6.  **UI Updated (Completed):** `poc-navigation.tsx` now displays D365 user status and session errors.
7.  **Adapt `mapD365RolesToAppRoles` (Completed):**
    *   The developer has confirmed that the D365 `APP_ROLES_FIELD` uses a comma-separated string format.
    *   The existing `mapD365RolesToAppRoles` method in `lib/services/d365ContactService.ts` correctly handles this format. Other parsing examples remain commented out for future reference.
8.  **Verify `d365Client` Functionality (Initial Verification Completed):**
    *   `lib/clients/d365Client.ts` now initializes correctly in both server and client environments (client-side instance is non-functional by design, preventing crashes related to server-only environment variables).
    *   Further verification of Dataverse API request success will occur during end-to-end testing.

**Next Steps for Auth POC Refinement:**

1.  **Thorough End-to-End Testing (CRITICAL - Current Focus):**
    *   Restart the Next.js application.
    *   Test Case 1: User in AAD & D365 with correctly mapped roles. Verify `session.user` details (including roles and `isD365User: true`).
    *   Test Case 2: User in AAD, not in D365 (or not linked via AAD Object ID). Verify default roles (e.g., `UserRole.USER`) and `session.user.isD365User: false`.
    *   Test Case 3: Different D365 role configurations and error/edge cases (e.g., empty roles field, roles not defined in `UserRole` enum, leading/trailing spaces around roles/commas).
    *   Monitor server-side console logs for debugging messages from `D365ContactService` and `lib/auth.ts`, especially regarding D365 contact lookup and role mapping.
2.  **Implement `updateContactProfile` (Post-Testing):**
    *   Complete the `updateContactProfile` method in `D365ContactService` by ensuring `d365Client.updateContact` is called correctly with the appropriate D365 contact ID and payload.
    *   Create a basic UI (e.g., a simple form on a profile page) and a corresponding API route to allow users to update parts of their D365 profile (e.g., first name, last name) from the portal.
3.  **UI/UX Enhancements (Post-Testing):**
    *   Further update UI components to display more D365-sourced profile information (e.g., on a dedicated profile page or dashboard).
    *   Refine how the application behaves for users with `isD365User: false` (e.g., display a message prompting them to contact support if they expect D365 access).
4.  **Refine Error Handling (Post-Testing):**
    *   Implement more user-friendly display of session errors related to D365 integration (e.g., using toast notifications for `D365LookupFailed` or similar errors surfaced in `session.error`).

*Last updated: 2025-05-29*  -->

---

*This document will be updated throughout the development process to reflect completed items and any changes to the approach.*
